afvvmv fvfvlndfklvLogo
Knowledge Base
  English (US) 
Search our articles
DreamHost Knowledge Base  Security / Policies  SSH TopicsFacebook Twitter LinkedIn
Creating and editing a file via SSH
Overview
There are a few different ways to create and edit a file when logged into a DreamHost server via SSH. This article explains how to use two text editors:

nano — Best choice for beginners
vim — More features than nano, but also more difficult to use. vim is a good choice for advanced users

If you're not comfortable editing files in a terminal, view the following article:

Creating and editing files via FTP

This article only gives you an example of how to create and edit a file using SSH. When following these instructions, make sure to choose your actual file and edit it with whatever contents you need.

Using 'nano' to create and edit a file
nano is easier to use than vim so it's a good choice for newer users. Follow the steps below to create and edit a file using nano.

Creating or editing a file using 'nano'
Log into your server via SSH.
Navigate to the directory location you want to create the file, or edit an existing file.
Type in nano followed by the name of the file. For example, if you wish to create (or edit) a new file name index.html, run the following:
[server]$ nano index.html
A new file opens named index.html:
nano 01.png
Start typing your data into the file.
nano 02.png
When you're ready to save the file, hold down the Ctrl key and press the letter O: (Ctrl + O).
The bottom of the prompt asks you to confirm the name of the file, which is already set as index.html:
Press the Enter key on your keyboard to save.
When finished, press Ctrl + X to close nano and return to your shell.
Using 'vim' to create and edit a file
As stated above, vim includes more features to edit files, but is also more difficult to learn. vim is only recommended for advanced users with prior experience working in the Linux shell.

Using 'vim' to create and edit a file
Log into your server via SSH.
Navigate to the directory location you wish to create the file, or edit an existing file.
Type in vim followed by the name of the file. For example, if you wish to create (or edit) a new file named test.html, run the following:
[server]$ vim test.html
The vim editor may appear confusing at first because you cannot type into the file yet:
vim 01.png
Press the letter i on your keyboard to enter INSERT mode in vim.
It now shows -- INSERT -- on the bottom left:
vim 02.png
Start typing into the file.
When finished editing the file, press the ESC key. This takes you out of INSERT mode and -- INSERT -- disappears from the bottom left of your terminal.
To save the file, type in a colon followed by wq. For example:
:wq
The characters :wq appear on the bottom left:
vim 03.png
Press the Enter key on your keyboard to save.
Changing the name of a file
To change the name of a file, use the mv command. For example, this changes a file named file1.txt to file2.txt.

[server]$ mv file1.txt file2.txt
See also
SSH overview
Creating a user with Shell (SSH) access
UNIX commands overview
Creating and editing files via FTP
Did this article answer your questions?

Yes No
Article last updated August 21, 2020 00:42 PST.Facebook Twitter LinkedIn
RELATED ARTICLES
SSH overview
Force your site to load securely with an .htaccess file
How can I redirect and rewrite my URLs with an .htaccess file?
Viewing and examining your error log via SSH
Installing OpenSSL locally under your username

Still not finding what you're looking for?
DISCUSSION FORUM
Talk with other users
STATUS UPDATES
Go subscribe
DREAMHOST ACADEMY
Learn Wordpress
BLOG & NEWS
Explore articles
Logo
    
Copyright © 2020 DreamHost, LLC.


